Pan & Tilt Position Control System
==================================
This paper describes the development of a Pan & Tilt System for tracking a moving
target. The system is designed for tracking the parabolic movement of
a clay target in an English Skeet competition.

A mathematical model of the physical dynamics of the Pan & Tilt is
%developed and used as basis for the controller design.
derived and used as basis for the controller design.

Two digital PID-controllers are designed: one for the Pan system and one for the Tilt system.
The controllers are designed in the discrete domain, and therefore a discretized model
of the continous part of the system is first obtained.
The controllers utilize position feedback from 
the two DC motors
rotating the Pan & Tilt System.
The controller design process is aided by simulations of the Pan & Tilt systems respectively,
so as to speed up the design process and take into account dead zone nonlinearities.

The control algorithms are implemented on a microcontroller, while
the feedback of the DC motors is decoded and translated to positions on an FPGA.
The FPGA thus provides the position feedback for the microcontroller.
The PWM-signals for the DC motors are generated by the FPGA, while the PWM duty cycles are calculated by the control algorithms.
The microcontroller communicates with the FPGA through SPI, and the SPI implementation is described.

The real-time requirements of the digital controllers are met through the use
of a Preemptive Scheduling algorithm provided by the FreeRTOS operating
system.

Test results are presented,
verifying the mathematical model of the dynamics of the Pan & Tilt System
and the real-time performance of the microcontroller.
%Furthermore, the tracking performance of the Control System to an input signal
%of the English Skeet competition is measured.
Furthermore, the performance of the system tracking a clay target in a English Skeet competition is measured.

The usefulness of the implemented digital controllers to the performance requirements
of the application is discussed. Finally, options for further development of the system is discussed. 

Conclusion missing...